[Music]
if you've watched this channel for any
period of time you'll know that I do
basically everything the opposite of how
you would if you were playing
competitive Pokémon I run on zero DVS I
generally try to avoid TMS as much as
possible and I try to limit my
experience to beating the game on
minimum battles that means that I'm
always underleveled when I go into major
fights and I'm using a Pokémon that is
significantly weaker than my opponent
and yet we can still find a lot of ways
to get through the Gen One games because
the AI is so incredibly exploitable and
the move sets of our opponents aren't
really that great but that raises the
question how much harder would gen one
be if our opponents were actually
running competitive move sets would the
AI even be able to take advantage of
those better Moves In order to actually
stop me from beating the game what kinds
of Pokemon will I end up using let's get
into it and find out so as we start our
challenge we're actually going to
encounter Pikachu outside of Pallet Town
which is kind of standard but this
Pikachu is no ordinary Pikachu of course
because it has been given a move set
that it would actually use in
competitive Pokémon that's right our
tryhard chew is coming in with
Thunderbolt thunderwave Surf and body
slam now I have set this game so that we
will have the same DVS as the AI
opponents that's eight in every single
stat except attack which is nine on top
of that we are never going to be able to
learn any level up moves whatsoever we
have locked in the move sets that are
listed on smogon.com and those are the
only moves that we can use I just used
smogen because it was an easy source to
find move sets for every single Pokémon
so with that let's go ahead and get into
our first battle with the Rival and
let's just see how this actually goes
and as we come up against our rival we
can see his move set for this he has
body slam double-edge reflect and rest
that was the move set listed for Eevee
so let's see how this actually goes I'm
going to just go all in on attack I
think let's see what Thunderbolt does it
does about half he goes reflect and that
gives us the easy Victory try hard chew
gets to level six now in order to keep
this competitive what we're going to do
is we're going to limit our level to the
weakest level of the next gym leader I
will be allowed to catch more Pokémon
but I will be limited to the number of
Pokémon in each gym leader battle as the
gym leader that's standing in front of
me on top of that we're going to limit
statuses like sleep and freeze in order
to more accurately represent the fact
that we're playing semi competitively
here so I'm not just going to spam sleep
through the entire battle I will allow
myself to sleep only one opponent per
fight and same for freeze if we ever get
two freezes in a single battle we're
just going to have to reset and start
the fight again outside of that I have
disabled badge boosts for this run so we
will never get a badge boost glitch
again making us on on more of a Level
Playing Field with the AI I'm just
really interested to see how much harder
this becomes now it's worth noting that
a standard surfing Pikachu can actually
come in here and beat Brock on minimum
battles I've done it before with surfing
Pikachu so it's just a question of
whether or not we can manage to still do
that when we're running on these
settings if not we're going to have to
come back and fight additional trainers
or catch an additional Pokémon cuz we
can go into that fight with two Pokémon
under our belt but if we don't need to
I'm just going to go in and just
completely destroy him with our Pikachu
now Caterpie is one of the few Pokémon
that did not get a move set change
because it doesn't learn any new moves
and we can simply sit here and spam
Thunderbolt and get a pretty easy three
hit K.O on that Caterpie that leaves us
at level six as we go into Brock's gym
let's just see if we can actually manage
to beat
[Music]
him so Brock attempts number one of
course I'm just going to go surf here
and let's see if we get the KO we do so
we one shot the first geod dude that was
easy we definitely didn't want
earthquake or explosion there so that's
pretty nice out comes the Onyx we can
see it those bind body slam earthquake
and explosion I'm going to go surf he
gets me in a bind and then he explodes
and I lose the first attempt so yeah
that clearly doesn't work at our current
level we're still too slow for the Onyx
but we can gain two more levels before
we have to come back here so I'm just
going to keep the XP and let's get one
more Pokémon on our team so I think that
first attempt against Brock shows us two
things number one we're probably going
to want to actually level up to an
appropriate level to take on our
opponents since there's going to be a
lot more explosions and strong moves to
be used against us and number two we're
probably going to want to catch extra
Pokemon that we can use as members of
our team so the real question is just
finding an appropriate Pokémon to join
our team and there are actually a lot of
options but I think I'm going to
actually try to catch a neeran male
because while we could get a Butterfree
that would be just in the range or catch
a Pidgey or something Nan mail has the
best move set of these Pokemon I think
at this current point in the game so
just like that we catch a neeran mail
and as we can see we know body slam
double kick blizzard and Thunderbolt
with this Pokemon and now what we need
to do is level up a little bit we need
to be a little bit stronger than we
currently are are if we're going to be
able to beat our opponents one other
thing that I should not is I've locked
all my Pokémon stat experience to zero
so we will never gain extra power
against our opponents just by grinding
against wild Pokemon or anything so I'm
going to freely just grind against
whatever I feel I need to in order to
get the levels that I need before I go
back to Brock and hey as long as I have
one Pokemon left over when he explodes I
should be okay but let's test this and
find out so first off with Pikachu I'm
just going to use surf against on
Geodude and get the one hit KO and now
against Onyx it goes body slam this time
allowing me to land the surf and knock
it out so just like that tryhard chew
does manage to get through I spent quite
a bit of time doing some setup on the
back end here so 15 minutes 26 seconds
this isn't really a speed run by any
means you're going to notice some resets
here and there just because I'm messing
with things on the back end but we do
manage to get through Brock and while he
does give us a TM we will not learn it
and you'll notice that I do not have the
B ER badge I do not have a badge boost
in attack we're going to use some other
means to get around here but as you can
see the guy who blocks route three is
gone so we can move on in the game and
now for this part I honestly don't think
we need any change to our team for this
next section I think we just use these
two Pokemon to beat Misty and eventually
we're going to get a need King so we
should be able to use that against
Lieutenant surge so honestly this might
be the only two Pokémon that I get until
we get to C on City now we are limited
to level 18 for misy but then we get to
go all the way up to level 28 with one
Pokémon for lieutenant surge so we
should be pretty good in this next
section just gaining levels from these
trainers now it's also worth noting I
will not be using any vitamins or
anything in these runs so that yet again
we stay on par with the AI since the AI
doesn't get stat experience of any form
we will not get it either so with that
we've made it all the way to the end of
Mount moon it's time to take on the
super nerd let's see how this fight goes
so he leads off with a grimer that knows
how to explode but also knows sludge
Thunderbolt and mega drain I'm just
going to go Thunderbolt here and see
what kind of damage we do and then he
explodes and knocks out Pikachu so now
we're going to have to send out our
Naran male only to find that we have
another Pokemon in front of us that
knows how to go boom so we're going to
have to go for some body slams here I
think we really want to paralyze this
Pokémon we do manage to get through to
get to the final coughing but yet again
it's a boomer so he instead goes fire
blast and knocks us out but if he had
just gotone explosion we would have lost
anyway so this is the first place where
we're seeing some real big changes the
super nerd goes from just being kind of
a trivial fight to being a guy with
three exploding Pokemon and we have to
find a way to get through this so
honestly this might be a spot where
actually using a move like Thunder Wave
makes sense since it could cause them to
be fully paralyzed instead we still get
boomed on and now we have to try to get
through the rest of the team but
explosion is just way too strong for
this point in the game so this time we
managed to get back to the coughing and
I wanted to try to freeze it just
because maybe that could give us a
better chance of getting through but we
can see blizzard did less than half so
now I think only hoping for paralysis
that's the only way we could get through
this since all of its moves are highly
accurate and we simply couldn't get
through so it seems like we need to get
ourselves another Pokémon if we're going
to have a chance to get through this
fight fight so what the heck let's get a
Pokémon of our own that can go boom we
now have ourselves a Geodude and of
course not only will Geodude resist
things like explosion it also can blow
up on its own while using earthquake
that could be super effective against
this team as well so with that let's see
if we can now manage to beat this super
nerd or not so against grimer I'll
simply use the same strategy a couple
Thunderbolts from Pikachu out comes the
volt orb and this I think is the best
spot to swap in my Geodude he goes
explosion of course it does very little
damage and we have made it to the
coughing at the end coughing doesn't
have any super effective moves here
everything's resisted and we can simply
go for earthquake granted we take a lot
of damage due to our low special stat
and Geodude does get knocked out still
we managed to beat the super nerd this
time let's pick up the dome fossil and
make our way to Jesse and James so here
against Jesse and James of course they
lead off with ekins which knows things
like earthquake so we got to be a little
careful here I'm going to paralyze this
Pokemon just to try to help avoid that
of course earthquake still one shots me
so I'm going to switch in next my
Geodude and let's go for earthquake
ourselves and get the one hit ko. out
comes Meowth we don't have anything
super great for this Pokemon and it does
no bubble beam it's only I think one in
four chance that it uses it but still
we've got to be careful here it goes the
bubble beam and we get knocked out so we
have to send out Naran mail where we
will go for the double kick it's going
to be a two hit KO to knock out the
Meowth and we've made it to the final
coughing but we don't have anything
great here Thunderbolt fortunately
didn't do that much but then we get
knocked out by a fire blast so clearly
this isn't a cakewalk fight by any means
we're going to really have to do our
best to get through this one so instead
I'm going to go all in an attack on the
ekin we twoot it with two Thunderbolts
this time Meowth we're going to go for
the same but body slam does knock us out
let's just see how Naran mail does here
of course we can go for the double kick
we just really don't want to get hit by
Bubble Beam with our Geodude that's why
I went this way and now we've got the
coughing out in front of us I'm going to
body slam this Pokemon hoping that we
could paralyze it instead it explodes
but that means that we win because we
still had Geodude in reserve so just
like that we have made it through Mount
moon but this is proving to be pretty
darn tough given that these opponents
actually have strong move sets explosion
seems to be the biggest problem in front
of us and not only does explosion make
the fights harder it also stops us from
leveling up with our Pokémon so we're
going to have to try to fight more
battles just to get enough levels that I
think Misty will be reasonable because
currently her weakest Pokemon is at
level 18 and I'm not sure we could
actually beat her given the fact that
she's going to be running things like
surf recover and coverage with things
like Thunderbolt and blizzard she might
be pretty darn hard so instead let's try
to take on the Rival and see if we we
can win this fight so here against rival
number two he leads off with a speo
which of course doesn't have any good
moves against our Pikachu basically it
can go what double-edged so I'm just
going to go Thunderbolt here and try to
knock this one out we do not get a one
hit ko. but we do get a knock it out the
next turn sandrew is out next it goes
Swords Dance after I accidentally body
slammed let's see what surf does it does
get the K as well now on the ratata I'm
going to go for Thunderbolt here and get
the critical hit one hit KO and now
Eevee doesn't have anything good against
a Geodude so I'm going to swap Geodude
in and let's just see what this does
here it goes double-edged but we can go
earthquake to do pretty decent damage
reflect is kind of bad for us and it's
not quite in the range to be able to use
seismic toss here however if it doesn't
go rest we're guaranteed to win with a
seismic toss and we get through that
fight on the first attempt even though
we had one fewer Pokémon than the Rival
still that mostly came down to the fact
that Pikachu was really fast and he
tried to set up with his sandrew which
gave me a free turn when I misclicked
but still we managed to get through
let's move up through the Nugget bridge
and just see if we can get the levels
that we need now one thing to note is
that most of the trainers at this point
in the game do not have Smart AI so they
end up using the wrong moves and when
they do use the Right Moves like
blizzard here from this rata it's just
pure dumb luck and what that means is
that technically we could sit here and
just Spam moves and as long as we're
using the strongest moves against each
opponent we should be able to get
through these fights pretty easily that
being said even a youngster on the
Nugget Bridge can actually be pretty
hard here given the fact that he just
has much better type coverage with his
move sets than he normally would and
when everything from the beginning of
the game is already using like 90 base
power moves it can be pretty tough to
get through these fights without going
back to heal now it's also worth noting
I will be picking up standard hm users
that I won't use in battle granted I
mean I could use them but I'm generally
going to avoid using hm users in battle
unless it's absolutely necessary but of
course if I do use hm users in battle
they count as part of my team and my
Pokemon limit for the fight so that I'm
not using more Pokemon than my opponents
and as we make our way to the last at
the end of this section of course we can
make pretty quick work of this team
since our nean mailed has nothing to
fear from these grass types however
sleep is a potential problem still we do
manage to get through and we've made it
to Billy boy's house where we can tell
him that we're now competitive Pokémon
players he's of course going to go do
more research on what kinds of
strategies we should actually be using
here and we're just going to take this
opportunity to go ahead and help him out
with that teleporter and let Pikachu be
amazed at his crazy experiments but we
still have a couple more levels
available before we have to go fight
misy so I'm going to go ahead and take
on some more required trainers here
starting with the innocent bystander who
has a Machop and a drowsy so here for
the Machop I think we're just fine with
our Naran male but we can see that the
Machop knows earthquake so if it uses
that move we might be in trouble here
and body slam paralyzes us so we get
knocked out really really quickly let's
see if ThunderBolt from Pikachu does
decent damage instead we get earthquake
down leaving us with only one Pokemon
remaining fortunately we get a gen one
miss allowing us to get through that
Pokemon and make it to the drowsy which
uses seismic toss on us and earthquake
is not a hit ko. fortunately it just
seismic tosses twice I think psychic
would have done Us in and now at level
16 we can get Nino I just used a single
rare candy to get there cuz I was
actually having a lot of trouble with
that Pokemon but now with narino and toe
we have a slightly stronger Pokemon I'm
not going to evolve into a Nido King
just yet though because I think we want
to keep our Pokemon as it is for now as
we go into the Misty fight now neino
does require one change however because
on sman for some reason and instead of
having double kick neino is listed with
bubble beam probably to take out rock
types but since we have a different
Pokémon now we're going to use whatever
move set was listed on smogen so with
that let's get into the Misty fight and
see if she's possible or
[Music]
not so Misty attempt number one she
sends out Staryu that knows surf Thunder
Wave Thunderbolt and recover so here I
think the best strategy is to go for the
Thunderbolt and just see how much damage
we can do she did over half to us with a
single surf now she goes Thunderbolt and
knocks out narino so we're going to have
to swap in Pikachu where a thunderbolt
will finish her off next it's time to
paralyze this star me as it goes
blizzard and simply one shots me and now
it's a foregone conclusion she is faster
and she has smart AI she's just going to
completely destroy my Geodude here
there's no way to get through that fight
still let's try this again maybe we can
get better luck against Misty let's try
a body slam to see if we can paralyze
the first Staryu she goes Thunderbolt
twice which actually does less damage
but then she paralyzes us and we're
fully paralyzed allowing her to knock us
out so out comes Pikachu again we go
Thunderbolt we knock out that Pokemon
now starino blizzard psychic recover and
Thunder Wave so it could theoretically
use a lot of different moves but even
psychic is strong enough to one shot
Pikachu here and yet again we can't do
anything to stop her from going blizzard
against our Geodude so we can still
technically gain two more levels with
our narino and I think that's our first
stop for trying to improve here
otherwise we might even have to catch a
different Pokemon to use in place of
that Geodude cuz obviously it's useless
in this fight so now with all three of
our Pokemon at level 18 let's just see
what happens now because perhaps if we
can find a way to paralyze a Pokemon or
something we might have a chance to get
through this fight still it's probably
going to be pretty tough possibly
impossible but let's just see so here
I'm going to go Thunderbolt against the
Staryu we did over half she goes recover
but that's actually perfectly fine with
us then she's fully paralyzed we were
fully paralyzed paralysis is giving us
really bad luck here still we managed to
at least get through that we can body
slam here and now I'm going to go
Thunder Wave on the star me but
unfortunately we get knocked out in a
single hit nothing to do there I just
explode on the star me because I can and
we're simply going to have to lose just
like that this time we managed to get
through Staryu with no damage of course
we're weak against psychic so if she
uses that move we're just going to be
out of luck here I went for body slam to
see if I could get the paralysis when
she used the next defend but it didn't
work out this time however she goes
recover with the star me and that gives
me a chance to paralyzer with Pikachu I
can now go Thunderbolt for pretty decent
damage it's still going to be a three
hit KO to knock this Pokémon out but as
she takes down our Pikachu I think we
might just have a chance here seismic
toss from the Geodude ends it and just
like that we were in fact able to beat
Misty it took me nearly an hour to get
to this point granted I was doing a lot
of stuff on the back end as well but
still not great this is a lot harder
than a standard solo run given the fact
that our opponents actually have moves
so what's up guys tail from the future
here I noticed an error when I was
editing this video I realized after the
fact that spite of the fact that I had a
rule that I could only use two Pokémon
against Misty cuz she only has two
Pokemon herself I used three Pokémon
against her and that wouldn't be
legitimate so I wanted to come back and
explore the options that would be
available in this section and I have a
few Pokemon that I think would have been
good secondary Pokemon in this fight
we've got Jigglypuff Kadabra drowsy and
Bellsprout now your natural reaction
might be to just go Bellsprout I mean
it's it's a grass type it has strong
moves it's going to learn sleep powder
storage dance Mega drain and WAP here so
it should be pretty decent against MTI
so let's just test this out if we start
off with our Pikachu as our lead Pokemon
in this one we can go Thunderbolt on
Staryu it is not a one hit KO but she X
defense so that gives us a very easy
followup right there now she can send
out her star me I'm simply going to go
for Thunder Wave but psychic still one
shots me and this is where we can see
the issue with the Bells Sprout this
star me knows psychic and blizzard and
it's just going to use one of those two
moves against a Bellsprout so bell
sprout and Oddish are not a solution to
this battle unless you could get the
luck for her to use an X defend allowing
you to paralyze her you're guaranteed to
lose with these Pokémon against the star
me so we need to try one of these other
Pokémon now I chose Jigglypuff because
it's a high HP normal type and it's
coming in with body slam Thunder Wave
blizzard and Thunder Bol a pretty decent
move set for this particular fight so
let's just see how it goes so in this
one we can go Thunderbolt with Pikachu
once again a critical hit one shots to
Staryu that's very nice she sends out
star me we can try to go for Thunder
Wave she used recover on full health
that is one of the best case scenarios
here then we can simply go Thunderbolt
she can recover we'll stick with the
Thunderbolt of course though because we
just want to do as much damage as
possible this is going to be a three hit
ko. with the Pikachu but if we do manage
to get the Paralysis on doesn't really
matter what we do now with the
Jigglypuff we will simply knock her out
still it's worth noting that that came
down to getting the Paralysis on the
star me and that comes down to the fact
that she doesn't have a super effective
move against Pikachu gen 1 AI is not
smart enough to differentiate between
damage dealing moves and non-damaging
moves so she simply looks and says which
of my moves are not resisted by Pikachu
that's recover blizzard and psychic and
she's just going to choose one of those
three randomly so Pikachu has a one in
three chance of not getting hit with a
damage dealing move here plus an
additional chance that she uses the X
defend so certainly possible probably
not consistent at least with the
Jigglypuff now there are two other
Challengers that I think are worth
checking into one is Kadabra because
Kadabra with its huge special stat is
going to be more resistant against
Misty's special moves and on top of that
she's not going to want to use psychic
against this Pokémon so her star me is
only going to be able to go for blizzard
and we are rocking psychic seismic toss
Thunder wve and recover So in theory we
could find a way to get through here
let's test it out though and see how
this strategy actually works keep in
mind Abra is available just south of
Cerulean City so certainly possible to
pick up before this fight so in this one
we once again lead off with Pikachu
we're going to get the two hit K on
Staryu goes recover this time it's 50/50
it either goes surf or recover so that's
perfectly fine we will knock that
Pokémon out out next comes the star me
she goes X defend once again we can go
for Thunder Wave and then go into
Thunderbolts and here when she knocks us
out with psychic well we're just coming
out with Kadabra and just to test this
out let's see how much damage she would
do against Kadabra with one of her
damaging moves of course she's going to
want to use recover a lot here but we
can see blizzard does just over half two
Kadabra so even if she wasn't already
paralyzed a non-critical hit is
definitely not knocking out Kadabra here
and that gives us all the time that we
would need in order to Simply paralyze
her and knock her out with seismic toss
so if we just test this a little bit
more in this one we get knocked out by a
psychic with our Pikachu we can send out
Kadabra next though we will go for
thunderwave and paralyzer because again
in this one she's either going to use
recover Thunder Wave or blizzard she
she's two out of three to not even
attack attack us and after we get her
paralyzed we can go into seismic toss to
start dealing damage X defend really
doesn't matter to us sure she can
paralyze us too and if she lands two
blizzards we will lose but that's really
the worst case scenario we could also go
for psychic in an effort to try to lower
her special here so yet again while it's
not perfectly consistent we can get the
ranges in order to win this fight with
the Kadabra Strat and Kadabra is
possibly the best option that's
currently available for getting through
Misty in this fight that being said
there is one last option it would
require us to go down to Vermilion City
and then catch a wild Pokémon out to the
east of there but drowsy is available
gen one drowsy also has pretty good
special and comes with thunderwave
hypnosis psychic and seismic toss so
while we don't have a recovery move we
do have a sleep move and remember the
rules are we can sleep one Pokémon per
battle so in this SC we would simply go
Thunderbolt on the Staryu we can get the
easy to hit K.O with our Pikachu then we
can try to Thunder Wave here but it
doesn't really matter if we get knocked
out we simply send out drowsy next and
once again oh we got critical hit but a
non-critical hit will not knock out
drowsy here so coming back to try this
again she goes for Thunder Wave on us
blizzard without a critical hit
basically leaves us in the same range as
we were previously with our Kadabra and
with her asleep we can can just go into
seismic toss it's going to be a 4 hit KO
to knock her out with seismic toss here
but if we can ever just get the luck for
her to use an X defend or something and
get her to sleep we should have pretty
good odds of getting through this this
time we managed to get her to sleep
without being paralyzed so we can simply
go for the seismic toss and just like
that we managed to win the fight so the
point overall is that there are plenty
of ways to get through misty here with
just two Pokémon you're probably going
to lose Pikachu in the Pro process but
there are enough good options available
in the form of Jigglypuff Kadabra and
drowsy to make that fight manageable
cadabra is probably the best of these
options overall given the fact that it
can also use recover so it can simply
heal up if it does take a blizzard there
in order to hopefully make the fight
more consistent drowsy is probably
second best though the hypnosis Strat is
really inconsistent especially if you
did somehow manage to paralyze her
already hypnosis would just be useless
so you would really prefer to just have
the cadabra here and as you guys will
see as we go through the video this
doesn't really change the rest of my
strategy very much and I'm pretty sure
this is the only spot where I messed up
and used too many Pokémon in the battle
so with that let's get back to the
action moving on to the lieutenant surge
section but now I think the best
decision is to evolve our Nidorino into
a neid king because I think that's going
to be our best Pokémon for lieutenant
Surge and of course with Nido King comes
another move set change we have added
the move earthquake in the place of
bubble beam I'm just going to go ahead
and heal up in order to get the pp
amount right but with earthquake as a
same type move this should be a pretty
good way to get through this next fight
against Lieutenant surge granted we have
to get there first we still have to
fight rival number three and a few other
trainers on the road see if anything
actually gives us any difficulty now I'm
going to try to take these fights with
neid King given the fact that we need to
get levels before we fight against
Lieutenant Serge so let's just see how
this goes so first up we've got rival
number three I'm going to come in with
neid king of course Thunderbolt on the
speo is enough to get the one hit k.
let's go earthquake on the ratata which
is also a one hitter Sandshrew comes out
we can go blizzard and easily knock that
Pokemon out finally Eevee let's just go
with the earthquake it's an easy one hit
K.O as we get through that rival now
we're still Seven Levels lower than
Lieutenant Serge but I'm not sure we'll
need all those levels so let's go ahead
and just get cut and try to go fight
Lieutenant Serge one time so we're
coming in of course immune to electric
type moves and we have stab earthquake
it is worth noting that Raichu will know
surf but Lieutenant surge does not have
Smart AI in Pokemon yellow so it's a
one4 chance that he uses it otherwise I
think we win but let's find
out so Lieutenant surge attempt number
one I'm just going to go earthquake he
tried to use Thunder Wave which has no
effect and earthquake doesn't quite get
the one hit k. he body slams with a
critical hit but we survive and knock
him out on the next turn so as usual
Lieutenant Serge is the trash man we
easily take him down and we can move on
in this Challenge and with that I'll
simply get a bike voucher and then make
my way back up to Cerulean City so now
we can make our way towards the Rock
Tunnel starting off with the wrapping
lass fortunately given our high level
and the fact that we have pretty strong
moves like blizzard we can get through
this trainer pretty easily assuming that
we actually manage to hit and I'm just
going to take this section to gain a few
levels of course because we've got Erica
up coming we're going to need to be at a
higher level to get through her we're
going to probably end up changing up our
team if I have to guess because our
current team probably isn't going to cut
it for that fight first however we have
to get through the Rock Tunnel and there
are going to be some challenging spots
in this section not only is the
self-destruct hiker actually going to be
using explosion now but opponents like
this pokemaniac have really well-rounded
move sets we're dealing with earthquake
body slam blizzard encounter from this
Cubone and when we miss our blizzard we
take a lot of damage back the Slowpoke
as well is running Amnesia surf Thunder
Wave and rest we're hoping that
Thunderbolt is enough it's not but she
uses rest so we're able to knock this
Pokemon out in two hits still I'm going
to avoid any optional battles in here
for now cuz I think we're going to want
to take those battles later on with a
better team so for now let's get
straight to the Rock Tunnel hiker and
just see how this fight actually goes
now of course we just want to go
blizzard with our neoc King here just
because of the low special stat on these
geodudes I think this is the best play
We easily knock out the first Geodude
and graler goes down in a single hit as
well so we easily win that fight even
with him knowing better moves he just
never got a chance to use them but now I
think we need to think about getting a
newer Pokemon and the best place to do
it is going to be here in Lavender Town
I'm going to catch myself a Haunter
inside of the tower I think that's the
best Pokemon I can get for the next
couple sections still let's go ahead and
see how we actually do against rival
number four he's got five Pokemon at
this point he might prove to be a major
challenge let's see so he leads off with
FOH of course I'm going to go blizzard
and not get the one hit G it's going to
be a two-hitter but he just goes agility
so that's perfectly fine that is one
spot where our typing is actually
affecting the AI he just wants to use
agility because we're a poison type now
against the Magnemite we can go
earthquake and get the easy ko. shelder
comes out I'm going to go Thunderbolt
and get another KO nice and easy
blizzard on the sandrew is enough and
now earthquake for the Eevee of course
this is the last time we're going to see
Eevee it's going to turn out to be a two
hit KO but we get through thanks to rest
so just like that we have cheesed the
Rival now one other Pokemon that I'm
going to catch here is a Kadabra because
Kadabra could be really really good
later on in this challenge it has a
pretty good move set with psychic
thunderwave seismic toss and recover
that could cover a lot of opponents and
should help us against Agatha even in
the late game so just like that our
magic Manon joins the team and we're
going to take the opportunity to gain
additional levels with this Pokémon as
well I'm also going to take the
opportunity to pick up the Eevee here in
seladon city and let's let's go ahead
and evolve this Pokémon into something a
little more useful it is time for one of
my personal favorite Pokémon let's get
ourselves a jolon so with that I think
our Pikachu has outlived his usefulness
so we're simply going to get rid of him
and instead take out that Eevee that we
just got and evolve it immediately and
just like that jolon is going to come in
with a move set of thunderwave
Thunderbolt pin missile and double kick
ready to go ahead and get into some
action so with our updated team now of
Kadabra jolon and neid King let's go
ahead and make our way down into the
rocket Hideout and just see how many
levels we can gain with these Pokémon
before we go and try our hand at Erica
now of course stab psychic is going to
make this section pretty darn easy for
our Kadabra but we're going to need to
gain levels with this Pokemon in order
to have a reasonable chance in the next
gym and honestly this Pokemon could be
our main lead for Erica Koga probably is
pretty useful against Sabrina herself
since she'll also be using a Kadabra and
this Pokémon will likely be useful
against Giovani so Blaine is the only
spot where I might swap it out for
something else now the one issue with
Kadabra is that I don't have any way to
trade it in the game in order to get
access to a Alakazam so we're going to
be stuck with the mid Stave Evolution if
we use this Pokemon going forward the
same will be true if we get a Haunter
later on which I am planning to do so
we're going to have to think about that
just a little bit whether or not this is
actually the best strategy still for now
we'll come into the Jesse and James
fight where we're going to use our stab
psychic to on-shot the first coughing
meow I think we just do more of the same
it goes Thunderbolt but then we're going
to twoot this Pokemon but body slam
actually did US end so not much to do
there we're just going to send out jolon
next let's go double kick to finish off
that Meowth I guess Thunderbolt here to
try to knock out the ekins it is enough
so we managed to get through and we're
on to Giovani but I think we want to go
heal up because we're going to want to
be able to get more levels with that
Kadabra so after healing let's take on
Giovani and see how he goes of course
he's going to lead off with Onyx I'm
just going to go psychic and get the one
hit KO rehorn is out next once again
psychic does not get a one hitter it's
going to be a two hitter but we do
manage to knock that Pokemon out Persian
is outlast and it outspeeds and knocks
me out with a body slam let's see if we
can manage to get through with our next
two Pokémon I'm going to go Thunder Wave
here in order to paralyze it just to
give myself slightly better odds I'm not
sure if double kick is the best play
here let's just try it he guards specs
let's see what Thunderbolt does
Thunderbolt was enough to knock it out
from that range so Thunderbolt was
probably the stronger play there still
we managed to get through losing only
one Pokemon to Giovani that's really not
too bad and we can move on in the game
still that makes it pretty clear I do
want to gain more levels with my Kadabra
I think the fighting Dojo is a great
place to do that let's just see if we
can manage to gain some levels here so
we do manage to make it to the dojo
Master but not without a few resets and
we are slower than hitmon leer which
knows high jump kick meditate body slam
and seismic toss instead he goes X
attack turn one and that allows us to
knock that Pokemon out Hitmonchan comes
out next we've got submission agility
body slam and seismic toss here it goes
agility which allows us to get the easy
Victory so just like that we can pick up
a trophy Pokémon I'll just go ahead and
get hitmon Lee which we will just go
ahead and name Jet Lee and let's get
ourselves out of here now first things
first we've got to take on the
channelers here inside of the tower
psychic should make very quick work of
these gastley though we have to make
sure that we're one-shotting here to
keep from getting boomed on and here we
can find ourselves a Haunter which yet
again we want to try to catch
unfortunately it doesn't work out so
we're just going to have to make our way
upstairs so that we can get healed up we
managed to catch a Haunter on the Upper
Floor though so let's just check and see
how this one is looking fortunately we
can pretty easily heal right here making
this a pretty good training spot all
around but we're just going to take
minimum battles at this point as much as
we possibly can since we have an easy
time getting through all these
channelers anyway with that done we can
make our way to the end of this section
where we've got to take on ghosty Mama
let's see how Marowak looks in this
fight it's coming in with the earthquake
body slam blizzard and fire blast of
course it's going to be just completely
random here but let's see how much
damage psychic does we do not get a one
hit ko. but we survive the body slam
that allows us to use seismic toss to
finish the fight and with that it's time
to get to Jesse and James at the top of
the tower and let's see if Kadabra is
enough here otherwise we're going to
have to dig in probably to neid King and
I would use our brand new Haunter to try
to win this fight so first up against
Meowth I'm just going to go psychic here
we do get the one hit KO Arbok is out
next psychic does One-Shot that Pokemon
as well wheezing we got to be careful
this one could go hyperbeam or explosion
which probably kills our Kadabra psychic
does manage to get the one hitter though
as we get to level 29 so all in all a
pretty easy section of the game because
of the fact that we have a strong
psychic type and now we need to decide
what Pokémon to use in our next fight
against Erica now it's just worth noting
that all of of these trainers have
better move sets than they normally
would including Erica she's got more
coverage than would be typical plus
she's going to have more status to use
against us so we're really going to be
hoping that we can actually manage to
get through this gym without too much
difficulty so starting off with this
beauty who has execute usually this
execute is no problem it simply uses
barrage as a damaging move but here
we've got to worry about explosion plus
powders that could do significant damage
to us so I think our best play is
probably to paralyze it we get put to
sleep and of course since we have only
one Pokémon we technically just lost
that fight so this time let's go into
this fight instead with jolon because we
know pin missile which is four times
super effective might give us a decent
chance here we survive the psychic and
then we get the explosion so yet again
we technically lose we might need to go
for paralysis then into the pin missile
so this time I'm going to paralyze the
ex execute then go to pin missile and
we're really just hoping not to get that
explosion this time we get a nice
critical hit so we do manage to knock it
out with our jolon so now we need to
decide which Pokemon to use against
Erica I'm going to use jolon I'm going
to use my Kadabra and I'm going to use
my Haunter and let's just see if those
three Pokémon are enough we are somewhat
underleveled here so let's see how this
fight actually goes
so first up she has a Tanga that knows
sleep powder stunts War bind and mega
drain so I think the best play here is
to paralyze this Pokemon and then
technically pin missile is our best move
here though it's really not doing much
damage so I think this is a good spot to
swap out and honestly Haunter makes the
most sense here our opponent is not
going to have any moves that are really
effective here so I think she's just
going to randomize and mega won't do
much damage so let's go for Nightshade
just trying to deal as much damage as we
can she's going for bind even though it
can't hit us and we managed to knock
that Pokemon out with Nightshade out
next is weeping Bell I'm going to use
this as my one Pokemon to use a sleep
move on so we put the weaping Bell to
sleep now we can go into the nightshades
just hoping to slowly Whittle this
Pokemon down after it goes down we've
got gloom and honestly I don't have
anything great here but double-edged
can't hit me it can go for these
statuses but that's about it so I'm just
going to go for Thunderbolt to try to
paralyze it but honestly I don't know
maybe Nightshade into explosion is the
best play here we managed to Nightshade
it down so just like that we managed to
beat Erica on the first attempt and just
like that says an hour 39 minutes but
keep in mind I'm doing all this kind of
manually changing my move sets my setup
is actually not set up for team
challenges so I keep having to change my
Pokémon's name and typing as well well
still we have made progress through four
gems up to this point but with Erica
going down now is the part of the run
where this is going to get potentially
really hard from here on out
everything's like level 50 I think it's
like level 46 going into Koga and then
after that it's literally level 50 for
pretty much everything I think rival 5
actually has the lowest level team
that's remaining so we might want to go
try to take on the Rival first of course
we can just grind against trainers in
silco if we need to to level up our team
still I'll take the required battles
first and then let's just see when we
actually need to grind so here we are
ready to take on the Rival I just want
to see what his team looks like on this
first attempt let's see what kind of
ranges we actually get now he leads off
with sand slash so obviously we don't
want jolon out first so this honestly
might be a spot where our hitmon lead
that we got from the fighting Dojo is
our best lead I think I'm just going to
stick with the five Pokémon that I have
for now but let's just see how they
actually perform here so rival 5 attempt
number one of course he's eight levels
higher than us with his first Pokemon so
we're going to need to get some good
setup here I think to have a decent
chance earthquake just simply one shot
us and here we do about half with
Kadabra against the sand slash we do
manage to knock it out after that out
comes the cloer where I think I'm just
going to stick with psychic and see how
much damage I do blizzard does not
One-Shot so we managed to get another KO
with our Kadabra I'm just going to stick
with psychic here on Magneton we get
paralyzed and of course we're going down
the next turn that's really not too bad
let's see how Nido King does here now as
we go earthquake he goes rest with his
Magneton but that's obviously not going
to be enough we easily knock that
Pokemon out Kadabra is out next this
Pokemon should only want to use psychic
against us and it's going to be enough
to Simply knock us out so let's send out
our jolon let's see if we can get the
Paralysis on this Pokémon and then let's
just see what pin missile does it's not
doing a ton of damage but he is forced
to recover and if we can just get him to
for example be fully paralyzed for a
turn we should be able to knock this
Pokemon out instead he goes for seismic
toss that allows us to use Thunderbolt
to knock that Pokemon out now we've got
the Flareon in front of us I'm going to
paralyze this Pokémon first he goes for
fire spin we're down to our last Pokémon
in ha
and we just have to see if we can manage
to deal enough damage our Thunderbolt
did basically nothing I think Nightshade
would have been better but fire blast
was enough to one shot us and that's it
for that first attempt against the Rival
so we clearly need to do a bit more
level grinding before that fight's even
going to go like I said this is the
lowest leveled opponent that we
currently have available to us so we're
going to just have to try to get more
Levels by fighting Rando trainers till
we get closer to that level 38 so now
once again a few levels higher let's try
this rival fight again I fought tons of
Overworld trainers in order to get the
levels to get to this point and here
we're still doing a little less than
half with high jump kick but a critical
hit does then knock that Pokemon out I'm
going to try to go for meditate here on
The Cloister hoping that it just yes
goes for rest against our hitmon Le
allowing us to set up all six meditates
then we can go into high jump kick and
onot that Pokemon magn on we're going to
do more of the same we're going to try
to body slam Kadabra of course psychic
will simply One-Shot us that's perfectly
fine though that's kind of what we
expected I'm going to send out my jolon
next and go for the Thunder Wave here
and with this opponent paralyzed now we
can try pretty much anything but I'm
going to try pin missile to see what
damage it does we managed to knock our
opponent out I'm going to just go
Thunderbolt here on this Flareon it's
going to knock me out with flamethrower
that's perfectly fine out next we're
going to send our Haunter and go for the
sleep this is my one sleep Pokémon in
this fight and now I'm going to go into
the nightshades to try to knock this one
out and sure enough we managed to beat
the Rival it took quite a few attempts
there but once we came back at this
level it really wasn't too bad so now we
just have Jesse and James and Giovani
who should not be particularly hard so
let's just easily knock them out and
move on in the game here in the Giovani
fight we're going to lead off with our
hitmon Lee I'm going to set up a couple
of meditates and then let's just see
what body slam does here we get knocked
out instead by a critical hit
Thunderbolt so nothing to do there let's
just send out our cadabra and get the
easy KO on this Pokemon Persian is still
pretty fast but I think we can deal
enough damage provided he doesn't go for
slash there we easily knock him out
right Horn's out next it doesn't have a
great special so we one shot and needle
Queen we can go psychic it's not a one
hit ko. but we survive the Thunderbolt
in return and we can simply knock it out
the next turn with a seismic toss so
Giovani is just not smart enough to use
his earthquake against our Kadabra there
otherwise that one might have been kind
of tough but that's the problem with
smart AI in gen one smart AI only looks
at super effective or not super
effective it doesn't consider the actual
amount of damage that a move will do and
therefore you end up in a lot of
situations like that where the AI
doesn't have a super effective move so
it just randomizes between all of its
moves and that effectively means that
you get a lot of these spots where like
sure you're not great against the
opponent but they just use the wrong
move so they don't actually get an
advantage on you so up next of course
we've got Koga and I just want to kind
of see what his team looks like of
course he's got three venats and a
venomoth here our ideal Pokemon of
course is just going to be to use our
Kadabra against him but I kind of want
to just test this out Kadabra is
currently our strongest Pokemon at level
42 and it might be strong enough to
basically sweep the real question is
just how do we do against that final
venomoth cuz I'm pretty sure it's still
faster than us and will be able to knock
us out pretty easily but let's just see
what's let's see what the move sets look
like yes I know I'm going in with hitmon
le as my lead we're going to get
destroyed by psychic I think that's
[Music]
fine so Kaa attempt number one here I'm
just going to go for body slam on this
first venonat of course psychic does
massive damage but we knock it out on
the next turn we can body slam here
against the second venette we do get
knocked out there let's send out our
Kadabra now we'll go for psychic and one
shot that Pokemon psychic on the next
venonat is also a oneit ko. and now we
are still slower than the venomoth he
goes sleep powder we wake up he goes
stun SP after that then he goes for an X
attack so I'm going to put him to sleep
and now try to go for psychic on this
Pokémon we do well over half as he uses
another X attack double edge does knock
our Kadabra out but now we should be
faster with just about anything so we'll
just send out Haunter and use our
Nightshade in order to win so it was
actually not that hard to get through
that fight considering we have four
Pokemon available I'm so used to
fighting him as a solo challenge in
which case I think within a couple
levels we would have been able to beat
him with our Haunter on its own we just
needed to be able to outspeed against
that final venomoth and we would have
been perfectly fine still we've taken a
lot of optional battles here just
because I'm grinding up a team rather
than doing a solo challenge which always
takes a lot more time but just like that
we have managed to get another gem badge
we're ready to move on in the game now I
think this next section is where neid
King is going to become very important
as a Pokemon with stab ground to use
against Blaine but I also think that of
our three Pokemon that we can use we're
probably going to be wise to go in with
our Kadabra and we can also so maybe go
in with our hitmon Le the other gym of
course that we can take on right now is
Sabrina where in which case I think we
go with Kadabra I think we use jolon and
then none of our other Pokemon are
particularly great against those psychic
types so we're going to have to really
see how that one goes so here we've
actually made it to Blain first and I've
decided to take this on fight on because
of the fact that we don't really have
anything good against Sabrina this is
most likely the best chance that we're
going to get so let's just see how this
fight actually goes and see if even at a
kind of low level neoc King with it stab
earthquake can manage to get through
this so here against Blaine I'm just
going to lead off with the earthquake
now he's faster with his Ninetails and
can use fire spin on us which is really
not good but then he confused raise us
the next turn we nearly one shot it's
going to be get two hit K on this
Pokémon our first member goes down I'm
going to switch now to Kadabra and let's
just see if we can knock this Pokémon
out sure enough we do out comes Rapidash
where it body slams and one shots us so
I think our best bet for our last
Pokemon is to go with our hitmon Lee
it's our highest level Pokemon that's
remaining we get paralyzed by a body
slam and then fire blasted down so
clearly this fight just isn't happening
at this point so I think our best bet is
just to grind levels here so I'm going
to box a few of my Pokémon and just use
the main ones that I want to use in this
fight in order to level up the next
attempt we actually managed to knock out
rapid Ash after putting it to sleep with
Haunter but now we're not allowed to use
any sleep strats on the Arcanine so
we're really hoping not to get hit by
fire blast we did manage to paraliz it
it could go rest and heal up but it
doesn't so we win on the very next
attempt Without Really grinding at all
we managed to finally get through that
fight still I'm not feeling super
confident about Sabrina she doesn't have
Smart AI in this version but she's still
going to have a really strong team and
we're going to need some luck I think to
get through this one and honestly this
is probably the time to go get some new
Pokémon still let's just try Sabrina one
time with our current team and just see
how she goes maybe we find a way through
so first up she has her Abra which is
not just flashing Us in this one it
knows psychic seismic toss Thunder Wave
and substitute so I think our best bet
is to go for earthquake here and try to
oneshot this Pokemon we do out comes
Kadabra next it's got basically the same
move set it just switched substitute for
recover here we get seismic toss again
though so we managed to knock out two of
her Pokémon we've made it all the way to
the Alakazam that goes recover and she's
just spamming recover here if she
doesn't go psychic I think we win and
just like that we beat Sabrina on the
first attempt with nid King we didn't
even use any other Pokemon that's stupid
so uh yeah Pokemon Yellow Sabrina is
just kind of bad honestly she just
really didn't give us anything to worry
about there I forgot to take out my
other Pokemon from the PC or swap
anything out and it just didn't even
matter so with that we are ready to go
and take on Giovani if we want to and
he's got a team of five Pokémon so we're
going to have to use pretty much
everything we've got I think Kadabra is
going to be the key there but let's just
see how this section actually
[Music]
goes so first up he has Doug Trio of
course it no slash earthquake rock slide
and substitute it's only going to go
earthquake here because he does have
Smart AI I just kind of want to see what
the ranges look like he of course knocks
us out with that Pokémon but if instead
we use something like magic Manon he's
just going to randomize here of course
slash is enough to knock us out just see
what we do here with our hitmon Le we
actually survive an earthquake here and
then technically we could come in and
just use just about anything with our
other Pokemon we're just too slow so
we're getting knocked out by the
earthquakes so clearly that just didn't
work we're going to need more levels or
a different team in order to get this
fight to go so after a quick trip to the
Safari Zone I managed to get myself a
Tauros at level 21 I'm going to have to
go Ahad level this one up but it knows
body slam hyperbeam blizzard and
earthquake a pretty standard competitive
set and we've got coconut our exeggutor
which is of course rocking the double
powder sleep powder stunts for psychic
and of course explosion could be useful
later on I'm not going to use it quite
yet but we're going to get these Pokémon
leveled up so that they can actually be
part of the team I'm at this point
already way far into this run it's been
a very long time I think even the timer
probably glitched out at some point so
I've just simply given myself rare
candies you could transfer them in via
the color case of course and there's
item duplication in gen one so I'm
simply doing this to speed this process
up let's see how we do when we actually
get our Pokémon to proper levels so now
with the entire team at level 50 let's
just see how we do now against Giovani
where honestly our best bet is probably
the lead off with exeggutor which isn't
weak to anything from that first Doug
Trio and we can also use status if we
absolutely need to so Giovani attempt
number two we're going to come in and
immediately just go psychic on the first
Doug Trio it's going to be a two-hit KO
we tank the slash just fine and out
comes Persian now Persian slash is
really really strong we got a nice
special drop there but we didn't get a
chance to get another attack off so I'm
going to switch to my Tauros now Tauros
of course should be able to KO this
Pokemon with a hyperbeam out next comes
the needle Queen we will go for blizzard
here I know it's not the strongest move
earthquake's probably a little bit
stronger but I wanted to see if I could
manage to get the freeze next is neoc
King I'm going to go for the same
strategy as he guard specs he goes
blizzard back on me and gets a critical
hit knocking Tauros out so I'm going to
go for some neoc King ONN King violence
here he blizzards my neoc king I
earthquake his and knock him out now
we've made it to the final ride on where
I do think blizzard is the best play it
does pretty good damage 75% or so as we
go down now it's time to just put out
our Kadabra and finish this off with a
psychic and just like that we do in fact
manage to beat Giovani now like I said
my timer got reset in that whole process
of catching my Safari Zone Pokemon so
scores and times are off this isn't a
speedrun guys so it's it's not a big
deal I may come back and update you
later on what the actual time was to get
through Giovani we're probably talking
around 4 hours of real time I think but
yet again I was spending time running
around in the Safari Zone chucking balls
to try to get that
Tauros so you know how Ash catch them
managed to catch like 50 Tauros is
beyond me since they made it basically
impossible to catch it this version of
the game but now we've reached the one
part of the game where I do actually
have to turn badges on in order to fight
the Rival and make our way through the
Pokemon League so let's just see how we
do against rival number six but for some
reason the Rival fight isn't working for
me so I'm going to Simply skip it let's
make our way to the league now due to
that glitch I did have to use a walk
through walls glitch in order to get
here to the Indigo Plateau but we are
now here and ready to try our hand
against the league so I'm just going to
buy a bunch of revives and full restores
and then we're going to see how we do in
this section of the game and I don't
think there's really any change to make
to our team now we have to use only five
Pokemon against each league member and
then we can use our full team at the
very end against the champion but this
is the team I'm going in with I've got
exeggutor I've got Tauros I've got Nido
King I've got jolon we've got Hunter and
Kadabra certainly not the best team but
but hey for the amount of time that I've
put in so far I think it's good enough
let's just see if we can manage to beat
Laura
Li so first up we've got laurelai with
her dong I'm just going to go for the
psychic here she's going for blizzard
against me of course since it will be
super effective but we do manage to
knock that Pokémon out now I think is a
decent time to put this cloer to sleep
if we can and unfortunately it knocks us
out before we get the chance so I'm
going to change to zapon here and let's
go for Thunderbolt we get the nice one
hitter on Closter we're going to stick
with Thunderbolt here on the slow bro
she heals so we easily get through that
Pokemon now I don't know what the best
play is but I think we just stick with
Thunderbolt here on jinx it goes psychic
with Thunderbolt again she super potions
now we get to knock that Pokémon out and
Lapras is out last we nearly one shot it
misses with a sing and we knock it out
the next turn so just like that we
easily beat lorai on the first attempt
so I am going to bring exeggutor back
for this fight against Bruno Just
because I think it is one of the best
Pokemon for this particular battle let's
see how it
goes so here I don't think there's much
strategy I think we just go for psychic
he explodes on us with his first Onyx
now we're on to Hitmonchan it goes
agility we simply get a knock it out
hitmon Le goes X defense so we get to
knock that Pokemon out the second Onyx
also explodes knocking out our exeggutor
so I'm just going to go with my Kadabra
for the final Machamp we go psychic we
get the one hitter easy Victory Bruno
wasn't really too bad but he did manage
to knock out one Pokemon so he was
actually better than normal usually that
would have been an easy one hit K Sweep
with all of our Pokémon basically I
don't think he could defeat any members
of our team outside of maybe jolon but
even then I think we'd find a way so
we've made it to Agatha it is definitely
time for us to come in with our Kadabra
and our exeggutor is our main Pokemon
let's just see how this fight goes she
could be random especially because three
of her Pokemon no
explosion and Agatha's just random with
her move choice so she totally could use
it let's find
out so first up we've got the Gengar and
of course this Pokemon could explode on
us instead it goes Thunderbolt turn one
but we do not get the one hitter with
psychic we do get a two hit ko. though
out next comes gbat it goes double edge
we're simply going to use psychic to
knock that Pokemon out Haunter out third
we go psychic and get the one hitter
Arbok I think I'm going to explode if I
get the chance unfortunately I didn't so
it's time to bring in Kadabra we go
psychic and one shot that Pokemon and
now the final Gengar tries to go
hypnosis we go psychic now it hits
Thunderbolt but it's too late for her to
do anything we easily win against Agatha
on the first attempt AG is only really
hard in Solo challenges when you have
like one Pokemon you're generally doing
just fine when you have a team team
challenges generally take the randomness
out of that fight as long as you you
have team members that are good enough
for that fight so now let's move on to
Lance and we don't have a whole lot of
good Pokemon to use here I mean we're
just generally going to be using our
strongest wherever we can but it is
pretty clear that we need to lead off
with jolon against that first
[Music]
Gyarados so first up we've got gados I'm
going to go Thunderbolt and get the easy
one hit ko. dragon air is out next I'm
going to thunder wave this Pokemon in
order to paralyze it and then it's not
like any of our moves are going to be
super strong here so I'm going to take
this opportunity to swap out and since
the AI always chooses moves after we
know that if we switch to Nido Sama
we're going to get hit by blizzard
whereas if we switch to bully it's not
guaranteed what it's going to use so
here once we get our Taurus out we're
simply going to go blizzard and get the
one hit ko. there we'll go for blizzard
again on dragon air this turns out to be
a twoh hitter and we get paralyzed but
we do manage to knock that Pokemon out
here Aerodactyl finishes us off
unfortunately with a flamethrower so now
I'm going to send jolon back out fire
blast did a lot but we managed to do
massive damage with Thunderbolt now it
hit me with toxic unfortunately but
we're going to thunder wave on the final
Dragonite and after getting it paralyzed
we can switch in needid King to use
blizzard it does massive damage but does
not get the KO still we can use two more
Pokemon here I'm going to send out my
Kadabra and go for psychic it doesn't
quite get the one hitter but it does get
the two hitter after he uses Thunder
Wave on me so just like that I managed
to beat Lance that was not pretty by any
means it was definitely really close
fight considering that we you know we
had two Pokemon left over technically
but still not great by any means still
we have made it to the Champion with our
team it's time to just heal up and see
if we can actually win this fight now
one thing that I am quite sure of is
that we are going to want to lead off
with exeggutor against the first couple
Pokemon here because we're going to be
dealing with the rivals sand slash then
Alakazam then his own exeggutor so the
Pokemon that we have that most resists
those Pokemon is our own exeggutor
[Music]
so here against the champion is sand
slash no Swords Dance hyperbeam and
substitute I think this is actually a
really good Pokemon to put to sleep but
I'm not sure maybe psychic is enough
here he goes hyperbeam I'm simply going
psychic it's going to be a two hit ko.
to knock that Pokemon out now I'm just
going to go boom on Alakazam and we
knock that Pokémon out so two of his
Pokémon are down we've only used one of
our own as we move on to the exeggutor
now for exeggutor I'm going to start by
paralyzing it it goes explosion though
and knocks out my jolon that's perfectly
fine because next he should have a
Magneton so I think this is a perfect
spot for our neoc King here he goes rest
IO earthquake it's going to be a two hit
K.O but because of smart AI he's only
going to use red because he sees that
we're a poison type so we get the free
KO on that Pokémon cloer next I'm going
to go Thunderbolt but blizzard hits
first nothing I can do there now we will
simply swap in a different Pokemon I'm
going to send out my Tauros here let's
body slam to try to get the paralysis
instead we get one hit koed by a
blizzard so I'm sending out my Kadabra
to try to knock this Pokémon out we tank
a blizzard and we knock it out on the
next turn Flareon is out now I'm going
thunderwave to try to paralyze it it's
fully paralyzed so I'm going to take
this chance to heal it misses a fire
Spin and now psychic followed by it
hitting a hyperbeam knocking out my
Kadabra I'm to my final Pokemon which is
of course my Haunter and we have to hope
that I can manage to actually get this
to go fire blast knocks me out so the
first attempt against the champion did
not go but let's try this again maybe we
can get just slightly better luck in the
next attempt so back again let's try
this time with psychic of course
hyperbeam does massive damage but we
survive with 69 HP very nice alakazam's
out next we boom and easily knock that
Pokemon out now let's just think what do
we actually want to do here I think I'm
still going to stick with the strategy
of sending out my jolon and I'm going to
see what pin missile does this time we
miss however yet again it booms that
doesn't really change the results at all
so here we will simply go earthquake
once again on the Magneton knowing that
this is a free Pokemon Magneton can do
nothing to our neoc King here cloer we
know we have no shot is just going to
knock us out it's perfectly fine but we
also know that Kadabra can actually tank
the hits so I'm going to send this
Pokemon out we get a nice critical hit
there it explodes to knock us out but
now that leaves us with the final
Flareon and we're sending out our
Haunter what I'm hoping for is to be
able to land hypnosis I do and since
this is the only Pokemon I'm putting to
sleep in this one we can simply go into
the nightshades here and then just boom
in order to knock him out we still had
one Pokémon left Tauros didn't even get
used in the final battle so just like
that we are able to beat the entire game
even when we give competitive move sets
now we did need do it as a team a solo
challenge for this you're probably
getting to a very very high level even
with pretty strong Pokémon there's a
couple reasons why I think that would be
the case number one we saw just the
biggest challenge I found in this entire
run was just the fact that so many
opponents know explosion which results
in a lot of battles where you end up
losing just because a tie always goes
against the player but technically there
were a lot of fights that were ties at
the end of the day still we managed to
beat the champion while still having a
team that was at lower levels than him
and uh it wasn't that inconsistent at
the end it was just a matter of finding
the right strategy so I would say that
there were really two takeaways yes
competitive move sets would have
dramatically increased the difficulty of
the game I think in a really positive
way but the AI is still not smart enough
to use that I would really be interested
to come back in a future gen even Gen 2
where the AI will actually calculate
damage and ranges to knock the player
out into its calculations when choosing
its moves that could make a much much
bigger challenge but that's something
I'll try in the future anyway I hope you
guys enjoyed this one and if you know
anything about how to program AI into a
ROM you know if there's any like really
good programmer out there maybe drop me
a comment and let me know because that
could be a fun project for the future
I'm going to get to updating my overlay
so that it will properly work for
challenges like this in the future cuz
obviously we could see a lot of
graphical glitches as we were going but
uh yeah lot of fun and uh I'm just going
to maybe make a patch of this and share
it to you guys if you want to try it
yourselves and did I get any of the
competitive move sets wrong tell me down
below obviously I'm using smogen but
some of the Articles directly say that
since certain changes to the metag game
this data is outdated for example I mean
who's going to have a brand new move set
for
ratata anyway that does it for this one
thank you so much for watching I will
see you in the next one later
[Music]